you
hi I'm Sean Walker and instructor at KC
trees and I'm here today to talk to you
about pruning in particular we're going
to focus on younger trees and how we can
prune them to encourage their vigorous
and healthy growth and sound structure
as they grow larger and taller there are
many reasons that people might prune
trees sometimes it's for aesthetics
sometimes we just like trees to look a
certain way we have certain expectations
and that kind of motivates our pruning
other times it's because someone might
have planted the wrong tree in the wrong
place or just coincidence makes it the
wrong tree in the wrong place you think
of maybe some big trees under utility
lines those go through a lot of pruning
by your local utility company perhaps
but we're going to focus on maybe the
last two reasons health and structure
you
one of the most important things to have
with you when you're doing any kind of
pruning is the proper equipment here we
have an array of what you might use
approaching any kind of pruning job of a
smaller younger tree right here on my
left we have our cutting tools and we
also have a cleaning and a sharpening
kit right here and also don't forget
about safety first aid and all your
safety gear the first and most basic
tool you'll use in pruning is the hand
pruners this pair here is kind of fancy
it has a nice ergonomic handle and
spring on it but basically if you get a
decent pair keep it sharpened keep it
well maintained it'll do the job for you
this will cut anything probably up to
about 3/4 of an inch in diameter so
really not to be used on the bigger
branches but always comes in handy
another fundamental tool is a saw this
is a special saw designed just for
pruning it actually does the cutting on
the pole action it's very efficient and
if you keep a fresh blade in your saw
then you'll get a nice cut this will cut
up to any size that you can handle
basically as long as you can cut through
the branch in the last cutting tool
we're going to talk about today is the
pole pruner this particular pole pruner
extends to about 15 feet without using a
ladder you can reach pretty high up into
the tree this particular set has a la /
attachment but once again you have a
limited size of a branch that you can
prune using this la / attachment and it
gets a little kind of spaghetti noodle
ii when you extend it too far so it can
be a tricky tool to use but can be
really useful for just snipping off tips
way up high in the tree
you